# 3160project

Database Systems (Spring 2021) ProjectOverview:1)   Given an existing database, review the Entity Relationship Diagram and Database to understand the database structure.  This can be done locally by each team member using the SQL script that is provided for the database.2)   Review the “BACKGROUND” information below – carefully.3)   Either work locally with the database (this is a good place to start) or load the database to cloud services (GCP or Azure may be available). Set up admin access privileges for all members of your project group (team).4)   Following proper guidelines for fully normalized relational databases, the use case requires the addition of a rating system for both drivers and restaurants.  The rating files must show supertypes and subtypes. Load the tables with sufficient test data (http://www.generatedata.com can be used – 20 or more rating records per table in most cases).5)   Create stored procedures that provide the highest and lowest ratings for drivers and restaurants, and the average rating for drivers and restaurants.  Test the stored procedures and show the output.6)   Also demonstrate:a. Two views which employ joins, nested selects or subqueries, conditions, and where/sorting (requiring indexing)b. Query optimization (Use of Explain, slow query log, discuss use of indexes for query optimization)c.  Provide a description of types of users and roles (what needs to be considered)6) Final deliverable: narrated (voice over) PPT (no more than 15 slides) listing users, explaining the new rating system and discussing all features AND sql dump.  Turn in via canvas.NOTE:  see Canvas for detailed project information.BackgroundWith the threat of the Corona virus, food delivery services are more important than ever.  Local restaurants are eager to find easy ways to have food delivered to customers without having to hire delivery employees. Even when things return to normal, many experts feel that food delivery will be something that we all will have become accustomed to as a part of our regular activites (even more than before).  Students love food delivery services on campus.  Campuses do not like the steady stream of visitors that may or  may not have a formal connection with the university.  Companies such as UberEats and GrubHub are happy to deliver on campus, but many schools are wondering if they should take control of the delivery and ensure that students and 
authorized university employees are the only ones delivering food on campus for safety and health reasons.One startup that has tried to tackle this problem  is http://www.craveoncampus.comThe company is a startup and  the site shows evidence of the system design.  Your assignment is to understand a test database for a campus controlled food delivery service similar to craveoncampus.com.  You will be enhancing the database with a rating system for both restaurants and delivery drivers.  You can also look at grubhub and ubereats for ideas.  Please remember this is extending a prototype for the database not a fully implemented working model.   Here is some basic information on the existing database prototype: 1)   Persons (campus faculty, staff, students) have accounts in the system with personid (PK), name, email, cell, etc.  For faculty we also keep title, highest degree, and degreecollege.  For staff we keep Position and AdminYorN.  For students we keep GradYear and major plus type (undergraduate, graduate).  Only faculty, staff and students are included.2)   We have Locations which are spots on campus where food can be delivered.  Some examples are dorms, the student center, and approved classroom buidings.  LocationID, LocationName, LocationAddress and (optional) Latitude and Longitude are maintained in the database. Additionally a food delivery drop-off point is included (designated place for meeting or delivering food in the location – this can be a brief description).3)   Persons can also be drivers (delivery personnel which have to be approved). Drivers have licensenumber and datehired plus ratings. You may also want to keep vehicle information (relative to the vehicle that the driver uses).a.   UNCC will start with 8 approved delivery personnel – the system is in test mode.  You can assume all individuals have been cleared and they can be included in the database.  b.   All delivery personnel are students.4)   There is a flat fee of $5 for each delivery.  A person orders food one to many times.  An individual delivery is tied to one and only one person for the order.  The order is for one and only one restaurant.  For the items on the order we will 
only need to keep the total price and delivery charge, along with the driver and delivery times.  There should also be a unique identifier (ID) that ties to the id for the order at the indivudual restaurant.  You can assume that the actual items on the order need to come from the restaurant database.5)   Food providers or restaurants have to be approved in order to be included in the database.  You can include ten restaurants or more of your choice for the test database.  Information will include an ID, location, schedule, and a link to the web site along with other attributes you may identify.6)   You are adding a rating system which does not exist in the database.7)   The database will serve as an important data collection source providing valuable information about nutrition and eating habits of campus community members.
